Rewrite v3 Getting Started docs (#7569)
microsoft/fast: sites/website/src/docs/3.x/getting-started/html-directives.md

      `,
      { recycle: false }
    )}
  </ol>
`;
```

Disabling recycling avoids stale state at the cost of recreating views, so reserve it for cases where reused DOM causes problems.

### The `when` Directive

The `when()` directive conditionally renders elements. It accepts a predicate function, a template to render when the predicate is true, and an optional template to render when it is false.

```ts
import { FASTElement, html, observable, when } from '@microsoft/fast-element';

class WhenExample extends FASTElement {
  @observable
  showContent: boolean = true;
}

const template = html<WhenExample>`
  <template>
    ${when(
      x => x.showContent,
      html<WhenExample>`<span>This nested template is rendered when showContent is true.</span>`,
      html<WhenExample>`<span>This nested template is rendered when showContent is false.</span>`,
    )}
  </template>
`;

WhenExample.define({
  name: "when-example",
  template,
});
```

## Reference Directives

Reference directives create references to elements in your template so you can manipulate them from your component's class. FAST Element provides three: `ref`, `slotted`, and `children`.

### The `ref` Directive

> The `ref()` directive maps an element in the template to an observed property on the component class, so you can reach the element through the component instance.

Reviewer: `ref()` assigns the property, but the property does not need to be observed unless the example wants the `videoChanged()` callback. This wording makes `@observable` sound like a requirement.

```suggestion
The `ref()` directive assigns an element in the template to a property on the component class, so you can reach the element through the component instance. The property only needs to be observable if you want FAST to call a corresponding `*Changed` callback.
```

In the following example, the `ref()` directive maps the `<video>` element to the `video` property on the `MP4Player` class.

```ts
import { attr, FASTElement, html, observable, ref } from '@microsoft/fast-element';

class MP4Player extends FASTElement {
  @attr
  src?: string;

  @observable
  video?: HTMLVideoElement;

  videoChanged(_prev?: HTMLVideoElement, next?: HTMLVideoElement) {
    next?.play();
  }
}

const template = html<MP4Player>`
  <template>
    <video ${ref("video")}>
      <source src="${x => x.src}" type="video/mp4">
    </video>
  </template>
`;

MP4Player.define({
  name: "mp4-player",
  template
});
```

### The `slotted` Directive

The `slotted()` directive references the elements assigned to a `<slot>` in your component's shadow DOM, so you can work with slotted content from the component class.

```ts
import { FASTElement, html, observable, slotted } from '@microsoft/fast-element';

class SlottedExample extends FASTElement {
  @observable

>   slottedElements!: HTMLElement[];

Reviewer: `slotted()` uses `assignedNodes()` by default, so an unfiltered slot can include text/comment nodes. This sample still types the result as `HTMLElement[]`; either filter to elements in the sample or type/described it as `Node[]`.

```suggestion
  slottedNodes!: Node[];
```

# HTML Directives

When working with a custom element's shadow DOM, you often need references to structural pieces within the template. FAST Element provides directives that reference and manipulate elements in the template and control rendering based on conditions or data.

## Rendering Directives

Rendering directives control what renders based on conditions or data. FAST Element provides two: `repeat` and `when`.

### The `repeat` Directive

> The `repeat()` directive renders a list of items from an array, using a template to render each one. It accepts the array and an item template, plus an optional configuration object.

Reviewer: `repeat()` is usually passed an expression that returns the array, not the array value directly. Could this say it accepts an array expression plus an item template?

import { FASTElement, html, observable, when } from '@microsoft/fast-element';

class WhenExample extends FASTElement {
  @observable
  showContent: boolean = true;
}

const template = html<WhenExample>`
  <template>
    ${when(
      x => x.showContent,
      html<WhenExample>`<span>This nested template is rendered when showContent is true.</span>`,
      html<WhenExample>`<span>This nested template is rendered when showContent is false.</span>`,
    )}
  </template>
`;

WhenExample.define({
  name: "when-example",
  template,
});
```

## Reference Directives

Reference directives create references to elements in your template so you can manipulate them from your component's class. FAST Element provides three: `ref`, `slotted`, and `children`.

### The `ref` Directive

The `ref()` directive maps an element in the template to an observed property on the component class, so you can reach the element through the component instance.

In the following example, the `ref()` directive maps the `<video>` element to the `video` property on the `MP4Player` class.

```ts
import { attr, FASTElement, html, observable, ref } from '@microsoft/fast-element';

class MP4Player extends FASTElement {

>   /**

Reviewer: These comments largely repeat the surrounding prose, and the same pattern appears in the slotted example below. Trimming them would make the examples easier to scan.

  @attr
  src?: string;

  /**
   * The `<video>` element in the template is mapped to
   * this property using the `ref()` directive.
   */
  @observable
  video?: HTMLVideoElement;

  /**
   * The `videoChanged()` method is called whenever the `video` property changes.
   * In this case, we want to play the video when it is assigned.
   */
  videoChanged(_prev?: HTMLVideoElement, next?: HTMLVideoElement) {
    next?.play();
  }
}

const template = html<MP4Player>`
  <template>
    <video ${ref("video")}>
      <source src="${x => x.src}" type="video/mp4">
    </video>
  </template>
`;

MP4Player.define({
  name: "mp4-player",
  template
});
```

### The `slotted` Directive

The `slotted()` directive references the elements assigned to a `<slot>` in your component's shadow DOM, so you can work with slotted content from the component class.

```ts
import { FASTElement, html, observable, slotted } from '@microsoft/fast-element';

class SlottedExample extends FASTElement {
  /**
   * The `slottedElements` property is an array of elements that are assigned to the `<slot>` in the template. The `@observable` decorator allows us to react to changes in this property.
   */
  @observable

>   slottedElements!: HTMLElement[];

Reviewer: `slotted()` observes `assignedNodes()`, so unfiltered results can include text/comment nodes. Either describe/type this as `Node[]`, or add `filter: elements(...)` if the example should only contain `HTMLElement[]`.

  /**
   * The `slottedElementsChanged()` method is called whenever the collection assigned to the `slottedElements` property changes. In this case, we log the old and new values to the console.
   */
  slottedElementsChanged(oldValue: HTMLElement[], newValue: HTMLElement[]) {
    console.log("The collection of slotted elements has changed:", oldValue, newValue);
  }
}

const template = html<SlottedExample>`
  <template>
    <slot ${slotted("slottedElements")}></slot>
  </template>
`;

SlottedExample.define({
  name: "slotted-example",
  template
});
```

In the example above, the `slotted("slottedElements")` directive creates a reference to the elements assigned to the `<slot>` and maps them to the `slottedElements` property on the `SlottedExample` class. The `slottedElementsChanged` method is called whenever the collection of slotted elements changes.

#### Filtering Slotted Elements

> The `slotted()` directive also accepts an optional configuration object to filter the assigned elements by tag name or CSS selector, so only matching element types reach the property:

Reviewer: Because `elements()` accepts a CSS selector, "element types" is a little too narrow. Consider "matching elements" or "matching assigned nodes" instead.
